# dry-beans-classification
- The dataset consists of features describing the shape of the bean and the goal is to predict it's type.
- This dataset is collected using a computer vision system that extracted shape features from beans images.
- In total, 13,611 dry bean samples were obtained, the training data contains 10,834 of them.
## Data Fields
1.ID, an ID for this instance. 2. Area - (A), The area of a bean zone and the number of pixels within its boundaries. 3. Perimeter - (P), Bean circumference is defined as the length of its border. 4. MajorAxisLength - (L), The distance between the ends of the longest line that can be drawn from a bean. 5. MinorAxisLength - (l), The longest line that can be drawn from the bean while standing perpendicular to the main axis. 6. AspectRatio - (K), Defines the relationship between L and l : K=Ll 7. Eccentricity - (Ec), Eccentricity of the ellipse having the same moments as the region. 8. ConvexArea - (C), Number of pixels in the smallest convex polygon that can contain the area of a bean seed. 9. EquivDiameter - (Ed), The diameter of a circle having the same area as a bean seed area: Ed=4Aπ−−−√ 10. Extent - (Ex), The ratio of the pixels in the bounding box to the bean area Ex=AAB Where AB= Area of bounding rectangle. 11. Solidity - (S), Also known as convexity. The ratio of the pixels in the convex shell to those found in beans: S=AC 12. Roundness - (R), Calculated with the following formula: R=4πAP2 13. Compactness - (CO), Measures the roundness of an object: CO=EdL 14. ShapeFactor1 - (SF1) Calculated with the following formula: SF1=LA 15. ShapeFactor2 - (SF2) Calculated with the following formula: SF2=lA 16. ShapeFactor3 - (SF3) Calculated with the following formula: SF3=AL2∗L2∗π 17. ShapeFactor4 - (SF4) Calculated with the following formula: SF4=AL2∗l2∗π 18. y, the class of the bean. It can be any of BARBUNYA, SIRA, HOROZ, DERMASON, CALI, BOMBAY, and SEKER.
## The general features of the specified dry beans are as follows:
Cali; It is white in color, its seeds are slightly plump and slightly larger than dry beans and in shape of kidney. Horoz; Dry beans of this type are long, cylindrical, white in color and generally medium in size. Dermason; This type of dry beans, which are fuller flat, is white in color and one end is round and the other ends are round. Seker; Large seeds, white in color, physical shape is round. Bombay; It is white in color, its seeds are very big and its physical structure is oval and bulging. Barbunya; Beige-colored background with red stripes or variegated, speckled color, its seeds are large, physical shape is oval close to the round. Sira; Its seeds are small, white in color, physical structure is flat, one end is flat, and the other end is roun
